CONTRIBUTING.md, before:


## Required programs

for developing you need: 
- golang 1.13+
- operator-sdk v1.0.0
- docker
- minikube or kind for e2e tests
- golangci-lint



## local build and run

Use `make build` - it will generate new crds and build binary


for running locally you need minikube and run two commands:
```bash
make install
make run
```
or you can run it from IDE with ```main.go```

## publish changes

before creating merge request, ensure that tests passed locally:
```bash
make build # it will update crds
make lint # linting project
make test #unit tests
make e2e-local #e2e tests with minikube
```

## adding new api

For adding new kind - KIND_NAME, you have to execute command:

```bash
operator-sdk create api --group operator --version v1beta1 --kind KIND_NAME
```

This will scaffold api and controller. Then you have to edit code at `api` and `controllers` folder.

## create olm package

Choose version and generate or update corresponding csv file
```bash
CSV_VERSION=0.0.2 make olm
```

it will generate files at directory: `deploy/olm-catalog/victoria-metrics-operator/0.0.3/`

update file: `deploy/olm-catalog/victoria-metrics-operator/0.0.3/victoria-metrics-operator.v0.0.3.clusterserviceversion.yaml`

with fields from file:`deploy/olm-catalog/templates/csv-additional-fields-template.yaml`

replace operator version - specify release instead of latest

commit changes

publish olm package to quay.io with

```bash
make olm-publish
```

### integration with operator-hub

 Clone repo locally: git clone https://github.com/operator-framework/community-operators.git
 
 copy content to operator-hub repo and run tests
 you can specify version (OP_VER) and channel OP_CHANNEL
 ```bash
cp -R deploy/olm-catalog/victoria-metrics-operator/ PATH_TO_OPERATOR_REPO/upstream-community-operators/
cd PATH_TO_OPERATOR_REPO
#run tests
make operator.verify OP_PATH=upstream-community-operators/victoria-metrics-operator VERBOSE=1
make operator.test OP_PATH=upstream-community-operators/victoria-metrics-operator/ VERBOSE=1

```

 Now you can submit merge request with changes to operator-hub repo


troubleshooting: [url](https://github.com/operator-framework/community-operators/blob/master/docs/using-scripts.md#troubleshooting)

Commit message:

added OLM integration, minor fixes packagemanifest generation for operator hub, docs how to generate it fixed issue with incorrect resources setting for vmalert, vmagent and vmsingle, minor docs update, bumped default versions for applications

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:


## Required programs

for developing you need: 
- golang 1.15+
- operator-sdk v1.0.0
- docker
- minikube or kind for e2e tests
- golangci-lint


## installing local env

- make install-develop-tools
- kind create cluster

## local build and run

Use `make build` - it will generate new crds and build binary


for running locally you need minikube and run two commands:
```bash
make install
make run
```
or you can run it from IDE with ```main.go```

## publish changes

before creating merge request, ensure that tests passed locally:
```bash
make build # it will update crds
make lint # linting project
make test #unit tests
make e2e-local #e2e tests with minikube
```

## adding new api

For adding new kind - KIND_NAME, you have to execute command:

```bash
operator-sdk create api --group operator --version v1beta1 --kind KIND_NAME
```

This will scaffold api and controller. Then you have to edit code at `api` and `controllers` folder.

## create olm package

Choose version (release tag at github) and generate or update corresponding csv file
```bash
TAG=v0.2.1 make packagemanifest
TAG=v0.2.1 make bundle
```

it will generate files at directories: `packagemanifest/0.2.1/` and `bundle/`


commit changes

publish olm package to quay.io with (you have to define AUTH_TOKEN for quay firsh)

```bash
export AUTH_TOKEN="basic ..."
TAG=v0.2.1 make packagemanifest-publish
TAG=v0.2.1 make bundle-publish
```

### integration with operator-hub

 Clone repo locally: git clone https://github.com/operator-framework/community-operators.git
 
 copy content to operator-hub repo and run tests
 you can specify version (OP_VER) and channel OP_CHANNEL
 ```bash
cp -R packagemanifests/* $PATH_TO_OPERATOR_REPO/upstream-community-operators/victoriametrics/
cd $PATH_TO_OPERATOR_REPO
#run tests
make operator.verify OP_PATH=upstream-community-operators/victoria-metrics-operator VERBOSE=1
make operator.test OP_PATH=upstream-community-operators/victoria-metrics-operator/ VERBOSE=1

```

 Now you can submit merge request with changes to operator-hub repo


troubleshooting: [url](https://github.com/operator-framework/community-operators/blob/master/docs/using-scripts.md#troubleshooting)
