vars.MD, before:

# Auto Generated vars for package config 
 updated at Wed May 24 14:59:48 UTC 2023 


| varible name | variable default value | variable required | variable description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| VM_USECUSTOMCONFIGRELOADER | false | false | enables custom config reloader for vmauth and vmagent,it should speed-up config reloading process. |
| VM_CONTAINERREGISTRY | - | false | container registry name prefix, e.g. docker.io |
| VM_CUSTOMCONFIGRELOADERIMAGE | victoriametrics/operator:config-reloader-v0.32.0 | false | - |
| VM_PSPAUTOCREATEENABLED | true | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vmalert | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.0 | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_PORT | 8080 | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 200m | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 200Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 50m | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERCPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERMEMORY | 25Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADIMAGE | jimmidyson/configmap-reload:v0.3.0 | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vmagent | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.0 | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADIMAGE | quay.io/prometheus-operator/prometheus-config-reloader:v0.58.0 | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_PORT | 8429 | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 200m | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 200Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 50m | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERCPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERMEMORY | 25Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/victoria-metrics | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.0 | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_PORT | 8429 | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 1500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 1200m | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 150m | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERCPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERMEMORY | 25Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vmselect | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.0-cluster | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_PORT | 8481 | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 1000Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 500m | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vmstorage | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.0-cluster | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_VMINSERTPORT | 8400 | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_VMSELECTPORT | 8401 | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_PORT | 8482 | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 1500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 1000m | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 250m | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vminsert | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.0-cluster | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_PORT | 8480 | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 500m | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 200Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 150m | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_CONFIGRELOADERIMAGE | jimmidyson/configmap-reload:v0.3.0 | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_CONFIGRELOADERCPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_CONFIGRELOADERMEMORY | 25Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_ALERTMANAGERDEFAULTBASEIMAGE | prom/alertmanager | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_ALERTMANAGERVERSION | v0.25.0 | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_LOCALHOST | 127.0.0.1 | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 256Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 56Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 30m | false | - |
| VM_DISABLESELFSERVICESCRAPECREATION | false | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vmbackupmanager | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_VERSION | v1.91.0-enterprise | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_PORT | 8300 | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 500m | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 200Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 150m | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_LOGLEVEL | INFO | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vmauth | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.0 | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADIMAGE | quay.io/prometheus-operator/prometheus-config-reloader:v0.48.1 | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_PORT | 8427 | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 300Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 200m | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 100Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 50m | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERCPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERMEMORY | 25Mi | false | - |
| VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTER_PODMONITOR | true | false | - |
| VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTER_SERVICESCRAPE | true | false | - |
| VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTER_PROMETHEUSRULE | true | false | - |
| VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTER_PROBE | true | false | - |
| VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTER_ALERTMANAGERCONFIG | true | false | - |
| VM_FILTERCHILDLABELPREFIXES | - | false | - |
| VM_FILTERCHILDANNOTATIONPREFIXES | - | false | - |
| VM_PROMETHEUSCONVERTERADDARGOCDIGNOREANNOTATIONS | false | false | adds compare-options and sync-options for prometheus objects converted by operatorit helps to properly use converter with ArgoCD |
| VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTEROWNERREFERENCES | false | false | - |
| VM_FILTERPROMETHEUSCONVERTERLABELPREFIXES | - | false | allows filtering for converted labels, labels with matched prefix will be ignored |
| VM_FILTERPROMETHEUSCONVERTERANNOTATIONPREFIXES | - | false | allows filtering for converted annotations, annotations with matched prefix will be ignored |
| VM_HOST | 0.0.0.0 | false | - |
| VM_LISTENADDRESS | 0.0.0.0 | false | - |
| VM_DEFAULTLABELS | managed-by=vm-operator | false | - |
| VM_LABELS | - | false | - |
| VM_CLUSTERDOMAINNAME | - | false | - |
| VM_PODWAITREADYTIMEOUT | 80s | false | - |
| VM_PODWAITREADYINTERVALCHECK | 5s | false | - |
| VM_PODWAITREADYINITDELAY | 10s | false | - |
| VM_FORCERESYNCINTERVAL | 60s | false | configures force resync interval for VMAgent, VMAlert and VMAlertmanager |

Commit message:

disable PodSecurityPolicy creation by default (#726)

vars.MD, after:

# Auto Generated vars for package config 
 updated at Fri Aug 18 00:39:10 UTC 2023 


| varible name | variable default value | variable required | variable description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| VM_USECUSTOMCONFIGRELOADER | false | false | enables custom config reloader for vmauth and vmagent,it should speed-up config reloading process. |
| VM_CONTAINERREGISTRY | - | false | container registry name prefix, e.g. docker.io |
| VM_CUSTOMCONFIGRELOADERIMAGE | victoriametrics/operator:config-reloader-v0.32.0 | false | - |
| VM_PSPAUTOCREATEENABLED | false | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vmalert | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.3 | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_PORT | 8080 | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 200m | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 200Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 50m | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERCPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERMEMORY | 25Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADIMAGE | jimmidyson/configmap-reload:v0.3.0 | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vmagent | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.3 | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADIMAGE | quay.io/prometheus-operator/prometheus-config-reloader:v0.58.0 | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_PORT | 8429 | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 200m | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 200Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 50m | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERCPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMAGENTDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERMEMORY | 25Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/victoria-metrics | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.3 | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_PORT | 8429 | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 1500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 1200m | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 150m | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERCPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMSINGLEDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERMEMORY | 25Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vmselect | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.3-cluster | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_PORT | 8481 | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 1000Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 500m | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSELECTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vmstorage | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.3-cluster | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_VMINSERTPORT | 8400 | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_VMSELECTPORT | 8401 | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_PORT | 8482 | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 1500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 1000m | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMSTORAGEDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 250m | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vminsert | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.3-cluster | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_PORT | 8480 | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 500m | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 200Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMCLUSTERDEFAULT_VMINSERTDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 150m | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_CONFIGRELOADERIMAGE | jimmidyson/configmap-reload:v0.3.0 | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_CONFIGRELOADERCPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_CONFIGRELOADERMEMORY | 25Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_ALERTMANAGERDEFAULTBASEIMAGE | prom/alertmanager | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_ALERTMANAGERVERSION | v0.25.0 | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_LOCALHOST | 127.0.0.1 | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 256Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 56Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMALERTMANAGER_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 30m | false | - |
| VM_DISABLESELFSERVICESCRAPECREATION | false | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vmbackupmanager | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_VERSION | v1.91.3-enterprise | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_PORT | 8300 | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 500Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 500m | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 200Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 150m | false | - |
| VM_VMBACKUP_LOGLEVEL | INFO | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_IMAGE | victoriametrics/vmauth | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_VERSION | v1.91.3 | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADIMAGE | quay.io/prometheus-operator/prometheus-config-reloader:v0.48.1 | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_PORT | 8427 | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES | true | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM | 300Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU | 200m | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM | 100Mi | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU | 50m | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERCPU | 100m | false | - |
| VM_VMAUTHDEFAULT_CONFIGRELOADERMEMORY | 25Mi | false | - |
| VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTER_PODMONITOR | true | false | - |
| VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTER_SERVICESCRAPE | true | false | - |
| VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTER_PROMETHEUSRULE | true | false | - |
| VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTER_PROBE | true | false | - |
| VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTER_ALERTMANAGERCONFIG | true | false | - |
| VM_FILTERCHILDLABELPREFIXES | - | false | - |
| VM_FILTERCHILDANNOTATIONPREFIXES | - | false | - |
| VM_PROMETHEUSCONVERTERADDARGOCDIGNOREANNOTATIONS | false | false | adds compare-options and sync-options for prometheus objects converted by operatorit helps to properly use converter with ArgoCD |
| VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTEROWNERREFERENCES | false | false | - |
| VM_FILTERPROMETHEUSCONVERTERLABELPREFIXES | - | false | allows filtering for converted labels, labels with matched prefix will be ignored |
| VM_FILTERPROMETHEUSCONVERTERANNOTATIONPREFIXES | - | false | allows filtering for converted annotations, annotations with matched prefix will be ignored |
| VM_HOST | 0.0.0.0 | false | - |
| VM_LISTENADDRESS | 0.0.0.0 | false | - |
| VM_DEFAULTLABELS | managed-by=vm-operator | false | - |
| VM_LABELS | - | false | - |
| VM_CLUSTERDOMAINNAME | - | false | - |
| VM_PODWAITREADYTIMEOUT | 80s | false | - |
| VM_PODWAITREADYINTERVALCHECK | 5s | false | - |
| VM_PODWAITREADYINITDELAY | 10s | false | - |
| VM_FORCERESYNCINTERVAL | 60s | false | configures force resync interval for VMAgent, VMAlert, VMAlertmanager and VMAuth. |
| VM_ENABLESTRICTSECURITY | true | false | EnableStrictSecurity will add default `securityContext` to pods and containers created by operatorDefault PodSecurityContext include:1. RunAsNonRoot: true2. RunAsUser/RunAsGroup/FSGroup: 65534'65534' refers to 'nobody' in all the used default images like alpine, busybox.If you're using customize image, please make sure '65534' is a valid uid in there or specify SecurityContext.3. FSGroupChangePolicy: &onRootMismatchIf KubeVersion>=1.20, use `FSGroupChangePolicy="onRootMismatch"` to skip the recursive permission changewhen the root of the volume already has the correct permissions4. SeccompProfile:type: RuntimeDefaultUse `RuntimeDefault` seccomp profile by default, which is defined by the container runtime,instead of using the Unconfined (seccomp disabled) mode.Default container SecurityContext include:1. AllowPrivilegeEscalation: false2. ReadOnlyRootFilesystem: true3. Capabilities:drop:- all |
