docs/backups.MD, before:

## vmbackupmanager

#### vmbackupmanager is proprietary software. 

 Before using it, you must accept EULA https://victoriametrics.com/assets/VM_EULA.pdf.

 `VMSingle` and `VMCluster` has built-in backup configuration, it uses `vmbackupmanager` - proprietary tool for backups.
 It supports incremental backups (hours, daily, etc) with popular object storages (aws s3, google cloud storage).
 
  You can enable it with the simple configuration, define secret
  
  ```yaml
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: remote-storage-keys
type: Opaque
stringData:
  credentials: |-
    [default]
    aws_access_key_id = your_access_key_id
    aws_secret_access_key = your_secret_access_key
---
apiVersion: operator.victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMSingle
metadata:
  name: example-vmsingle
spec:
  # Add fields here
  retentionPeriod: "1"
  vmBackup:
    acceptEULA: true
    destination: "s3://your_bucket/folder"
    credentialsSecret:
      name: remote-storage-keys
      key: credentials
---
apiVersion: operator.victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMCluster
metadata:
  name: example-vmcluster-persistent
spec:
  retentionPeriod: "4"
  replicationFactor: 2
  vmstorage:
    replicaCount: 2
    vmBackup:
      acceptEULA: true
      destination: "s3://your_bucket/folder"
      credentialsSecret:
        name: remote-storage-keys
        key: credentials

```


 You can read more about backup configuration options and mechanics [here](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaMetrics/tree/master/app/vmbackup)
 
 Possible configuration options for backup crd can be found at [link](/docs/api.MD#vmbackup)
 
 
## Restoring backups


 It can be done with [vmrestore](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaMetrics/tree/master/app/vmrestore)
 
There two ways:
 
 First: 
  You have to stop `VMSingle` by scaling it replicas to zero and manually restore data to the database directory.
 
 Steps:
 1) edit `VMSingle` CRD, set replicaCount: 0
 2) wait until database stops
 3) ssh to some server, where you can mount `VMSingle` disk and mount it manually
 4) restore files with `vmrestore`
 5) umount disk
 6) edit `VMSingle` CRD, set replicaCount: 1
 7) wait database start
 
 Second:

   1) add init container with vmrestore command to `VMSingle` CRD, example:
```yaml
apiVersion: operator.victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMSingle
metadata:
 name: vmsingle-restored
 namespace: monitoring-system
spec:
 initContainers:
 - name: vmrestore
   image: victoriametrics/vmrestore:latest
   volumeMounts:
   - mountPath: /victoria-metrics-data
     name: data
   - mountPath: /etc/vm/creds
     name: secret-remote-storage-keys
     readOnly: true
   args:
   - -storageDataPath=/victoria-metrics-data
   - -src=s3://your_bucket/folder/latest
   - -credsFilePath=/etc/vm/creds/credentials
 vmBackup:
  acceptEULA: true
  destination: "s3://your_bucket/folder"
  extraArgs:
      runOnStart: "true"
  image:
      repository: victoriametrics/vmbackupmanager
      tag: v1.56.0-enterprise
  credentialsSecret:
   name: remote-storage-keys
   key: credentials

```
   2)  apply it, and db will be restored from s3
   
   3) remove initContainers and apply crd.

Commit message:

fixes issue with incosistent name for backupmanager folder (#350)
* fixes issue with incosistent name for backupmanager folder
https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/operator/issues/349

Fixes cluster version backups, adds suffix with POD_NAME
it must prevent race condition for cluster backups

* updates readme with eula

* updates readme

docs/backups.MD, after:

## vmbackupmanager

#### vmbackupmanager is proprietary software. 

 Before using it, you must have signed contract and accept EULA https://victoriametrics.com/assets/VM_EULA.pdf

### Usage examples

 `VMSingle` and `VMCluster` has built-in backup configuration, it uses `vmbackupmanager` - proprietary tool for backups.
 It supports incremental backups (hours, daily, etc) with popular object storages (aws s3, google cloud storage).
 
  You can enable it with the simple configuration, define secret
  
  ```yaml
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: remote-storage-keys
type: Opaque
stringData:
  credentials: |-
    [default]
    aws_access_key_id = your_access_key_id
    aws_secret_access_key = your_secret_access_key
---
apiVersion: operator.victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMSingle
metadata:
  name: example-vmsingle
spec:
  # Add fields here
  retentionPeriod: "1"
  vmBackup:
    # This is Enterprise Package feature you need to have signed contract to use it
    # and accept the EULA https://victoriametrics.com/assets/VM_EULA.pdf
    acceptEULA: true
    destination: "s3://your_bucket/folder"
    credentialsSecret:
      name: remote-storage-keys
      key: credentials
---
apiVersion: operator.victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMCluster
metadata:
  name: example-vmcluster-persistent
spec:
  retentionPeriod: "4"
  replicationFactor: 2
  vmstorage:
    replicaCount: 2
    vmBackup:
      # This is Enterprise Package feature you need to have signed contract to use it
      # and accept the EULA https://victoriametrics.com/assets/VM_EULA.pdf
      acceptEULA: true
      destination: "s3://your_bucket/folder"
      credentialsSecret:
        name: remote-storage-keys
        key: credentials

```

NOTE: for cluster version operator adds suffix for `destination: "s3://your_bucket/folder"`, it becomes `"s3://your_bucket/folder/$(POD_NAME)"`. 
It's needed to make consistent backups for each storage node.

 You can read more about backup configuration options and mechanics [here](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaMetrics/tree/master/app/vmbackup)
 
 Possible configuration options for backup crd can be found at [link](/docs/api.MD#vmbackup)
 
 
## Restoring backups


 It can be done with [vmrestore](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaMetrics/tree/master/app/vmrestore)
 
There two ways:
 
 First: 
  You have to stop `VMSingle` by scaling it replicas to zero and manually restore data to the database directory.
 
 Steps:
 1) edit `VMSingle` CRD, set replicaCount: 0
 2) wait until database stops
 3) ssh to some server, where you can mount `VMSingle` disk and mount it manually
 4) restore files with `vmrestore`
 5) umount disk
 6) edit `VMSingle` CRD, set replicaCount: 1
 7) wait database start
 
 Second:

   1) add init container with vmrestore command to `VMSingle` CRD, example:
```yaml
apiVersion: operator.victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMSingle
metadata:
 name: vmsingle-restored
 namespace: monitoring-system
spec:
 initContainers:
 - name: vmrestore
   image: victoriametrics/vmrestore:latest
   volumeMounts:
   - mountPath: /victoria-metrics-data
     name: data
   - mountPath: /etc/vm/creds
     name: secret-remote-storage-keys
     readOnly: true
   args:
   - -storageDataPath=/victoria-metrics-data
   - -src=s3://your_bucket/folder/latest
   - -credsFilePath=/etc/vm/creds/credentials
 vmBackup:
   # This is Enterprise Package feature you need to have signed contract to use it
   # and accept the EULA https://victoriametrics.com/assets/VM_EULA.pdf
  acceptEULA: true
  destination: "s3://your_bucket/folder"
  extraArgs:
      runOnStart: "true"
  image:
      repository: victoriametrics/vmbackupmanager
      tag: v1.67.0-enterprise
  credentialsSecret:
   name: remote-storage-keys
   key: credentials

```
   2)  apply it, and db will be restored from s3
   
   3) remove initContainers and apply crd.
