docs/quick-start.MD, before:


# Victoria Metrics Operator


Operator serves to make running Victoria Metrics applications on top of Kubernetes as easy as possible, while preserving Kubernetes-native configuration options.

## installing operator

Obtain release from releases page:

https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/operator/releases

```bash
wget https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/operator/releases/download/v0.1.0/bundle_crd.zip
unzip  bundle_crd.zip 
```

First of all, you  have to create crd
```bash
kubectl apply -f install/crds/vm/
#if you dont have prometheus crds, add it with command:
kubectl apply -f install/crds/prom/
```
 
Then you need rbac for operator, relevant configuration for release can be found at install/operator/rbac.yaml

```bash
#change namespace for your installation:
export YOUR_NS=default
sed -i -e "s/namespace: default/namespace: $YOUR_NS/" install/operator/*.yaml
```

change configuration for operator at `install/operator/operator.yaml`, possible settings: [operator-settings](/vars.MD)
and apply it:
```bash
kubectl -n $YOUR_NS apply -f install/operator/
```

check status of operator

```bash
kubectl -n $YOUR_NS get pods

#NAME                           READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
#vm-operator-667dfbff55-cbvkf   1/1     Running   0          101s

```


## Create related resources

The Victoria Metrics Operator introduces additional resources in Kubernetes to declare the desired state of a Victoria Metrics applications and Alertmanager cluster as well as the Prometheus resources configuration. The resources it introduces are:

* `VMSingle`
* `VMAgent`
* `VMAlert`
* `PrometheusRule`
* `ServiceMonitor`
* `VMAlertmanager`


## VMSingle

 It represent database for storing metrics, for all possible config options check api [doc](/docs/api.MD#VMSingle):
 
 ```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMSingle
metadata:
  name: example-vmsingle-persisted
spec:
  retentionPeriod: "1"
  removePvcAfterDelete: true
  storage:
    accessModes:
      - ReadWriteOnce
    resources:
      requests:
        storage: 1Gi

EOF
```

configuration can be extended with extraFlags and extraEnv, check flag documentation at [doc](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaMetrics/blob/master/docs/Single-server-VictoriaMetrics.md)

for instance:
```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMSingle
metadata:
  name: example-vmsingle-persisted
spec:
  retentionPeriod: "1"
  extraArgs:
    dedup.minScrapeInterval: 60s
EOF
```

flag can be replaced with envVar, it`s useful for retrieving value from secret:
```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f  -
apiVersion: victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMSingle
metadata:
  name: example-vmsingle-persisted
spec:
  retentionPeriod: "1"
  extraEnvs:
    - name: DEDUP_MINSCRAPEINTERVAL
      valueFrom: 
        secretKeyRef:
           name: vm-secret
           key: dedup
EOF

```


## VMAgent

 `VMAgent` needs access to kubernetes api and you must create rbac for it first, it can be found at `install/examples/VMAgent_rbac.yaml`

 ```bash
#change namespace
sed -i -e "s/namespace: default/namespace: $YOUR_NS/" install/examples/VMAgent_rbac.yaml 
kubectl -n "$YOUR_NS apply" -f install/examples/VMAgent_rbac.yaml
```

 Modify `VMAgent` config parameters at `install/examples/VMAgent.yaml` and apply it, config options [doc](/docs/api.MD#VMAgent)

example:

```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMAgent
metadata:
  name: example-vmagent
spec:
  serviceMonitorNamespaceSelector: {}
  serviceMonitorSelector: {}
  replicaCount: 1
  serviceAccountName: vmagent
  remoteWrite:
    - url: "http://vmsingle-example-vmsingle.default.svc:8429/api/v1/write"

EOF
```

## VMAlert


 `VMAlert` has few required config options - `datasource`  and `notifierURL`, for other config parameters check [doc](/docs/api.MD#VMAlert)

```yaml
cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMAlert
metadata:
  name: example-vmalert
spec:
  replicaCount: 1
  datasource:
    url: "http://vmagent-example-vmsingle.default.svc:8429"
  notifierURL: "http://alertmanager-operated:9093"
  evaluationInterval: "30s"
  ruleSelector:
    matchLabels: {}
EOF
```

## Alertmanager


 `Alertmanager` - represent alertmanager configuration, first you have to create secret with configuration for it

```yaml
cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: vmalertmanager-example-alertmanager
stringData:
  alertmanager.yaml: |
    global:
      resolve_timeout: 5m
    route:
      group_by: ['job']
      group_wait: 30s
      group_interval: 5m
      repeat_interval: 12h
      receiver: 'webhook'
    receivers:
    - name: 'webhook'
      webhook_configs:
      - url: 'http://alertmanagerwh:30500/'
EOF
```

and add `Alertmanager` object, other config options at [doc](/docs/api.MD#Alertmanager)

```yaml
cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMAlertmanager
metadata:
  name: example-alertmanager
spec:
  # Add fields here
  replicaCount: 1
EOF
```

## Deploy example-app


First, deploy three instances of a simple example application, which listens and exposes metrics on port `8080`.

```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: example-app
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: example-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: example-app
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: example-app
        image: fabxc/instrumented_app
        ports:
        - name: web
          containerPort: 8080
EOF
```

The ServiceMonitor has a label selector to select Services and their underlying Endpoint objects. The Service object for the example application selects the Pods by the `app` label having the `example-app` value. The Service object also specifies the port on which the metrics are exposed.

```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: example-app
  labels:
    app: example-app
spec:
  selector:
    app: example-app
  ports:
  - name: web
    port: 8080
EOF
```

This Service object is discovered by a ServiceMonitor, which selects in the same way. The `app` label must have the value `example-app`.

```yaml
cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: example-app
  labels:
    team: frontend
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: example-app
  endpoints:
  - port: web
EOF
```


## Expose the VMSingle API


> WARNING: Enabling the external access to VMSingle highly recommend to protect with https and authentication, it allows to  to delete data.

example for kubernetes nginx ingress [doc](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/examples/auth/basic/)
```yaml
#generate creds
htpasswd -c auth foo

#create basic auth secret
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
stringData:
  auth: foo:$apr1$wQ0fkxnl$KKOA/OqIZy48CuCB/A1Rc.
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: vm-auth
type: Opaque
EOF

#create ingress rule
cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: networking/v1beta1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
kind: Ingress                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
metadata:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  annotations:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-realm: Authentication Required                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-secret: vm-auth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-type: basic
  labels:
    app: victoria-metrics-single
  name: victoria-metrics-single
spec:
  rules:
  - host: vmsingle.example.com
    http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          serviceName: vmsingle-example-vmsingle-persisted
          servicePort: 8428
        path: /
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - vmsingle.example.com
    secretName: ssl-name

EOF

#now you can access victoria metrics
curl -u foo:bar https://vmsingle.example/com/metrics
```

Commit message:

removed prometheus operator crd, added VMServiceScrape, VMPodScrape, VMAlertRule instead of it, added VMPrometheusConvertr controller, that will create our objects from prometheus one, improved OLM integration updated operator-sdk version, updated docs

docs/quick-start.MD, after:


# Victoria Metrics Operator


Operator serves to make running Victoria Metrics applications on top of Kubernetes as easy as possible, while preserving Kubernetes-native configuration options.

## installing operator

Obtain release from releases page:

https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/operator/releases

```bash
wget https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/operator/releases/download/v0.1.0/bundle_crd.zip
unzip  bundle_crd.zip 
```

First of all, you  have to create crd
```bash
kubectl apply -f install/crds/vm/
```
 
Then you need rbac for operator, relevant configuration for release can be found at install/operator/rbac.yaml

```bash
#change namespace for your installation:
export YOUR_NS=default
sed -i -e "s/namespace: default/namespace: $YOUR_NS/" install/operator/*.yaml
```

change configuration for operator at `install/operator/operator.yaml`, possible settings: [operator-settings](/vars.MD)
and apply it:
```bash
kubectl -n $YOUR_NS apply -f install/operator/
```

check status of operator

```bash
kubectl -n $YOUR_NS get pods

#NAME                           READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
#vm-operator-667dfbff55-cbvkf   1/1     Running   0          101s

```


## Create related resources

The Victoria Metrics Operator introduces additional resources in Kubernetes to declare the desired state of a Victoria Metrics applications and Alertmanager cluster as well as the Prometheus resources configuration. The resources it introduces are:

* `VMSingle`
* `VMAgent`
* `VMAlert`
* `VMRule`
* `VMPodScrape`
* `VMServiceScrape`
* `VMAlertmanager`


## VMSingle

 It represent database for storing metrics, for all possible config options check api [doc](/docs/api.MD#VMSingle):
 
 ```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMSingle
metadata:
  name: example-vmsingle-persisted
spec:
  retentionPeriod: "1"
  removePvcAfterDelete: true
  storage:
    accessModes:
      - ReadWriteOnce
    resources:
      requests:
        storage: 1Gi

EOF
```

configuration can be extended with extraFlags and extraEnv, check flag documentation at [doc](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaMetrics/blob/master/docs/Single-server-VictoriaMetrics.md)

for instance:
```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMSingle
metadata:
  name: example-vmsingle-persisted
spec:
  retentionPeriod: "1"
  extraArgs:
    dedup.minScrapeInterval: 60s
EOF
```

flag can be replaced with envVar, it`s useful for retrieving value from secret:
```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f  -
apiVersion: victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMSingle
metadata:
  name: example-vmsingle-persisted
spec:
  retentionPeriod: "1"
  extraEnvs:
    - name: DEDUP_MINSCRAPEINTERVAL
      valueFrom: 
        secretKeyRef:
           name: vm-secret
           key: dedup
EOF

```


## VMAgent

 `VMAgent` needs access to kubernetes api and you must create rbac for it first, it can be found at `install/examples/VMAgent_rbac.yaml`

 ```bash
#change namespace
sed -i -e "s/namespace: default/namespace: $YOUR_NS/" install/examples/VMAgent_rbac.yaml 
kubectl -n "$YOUR_NS apply" -f install/examples/VMAgent_rbac.yaml
```

 Modify `VMAgent` config parameters at `install/examples/VMAgent.yaml` and apply it, config options [doc](/docs/api.MD#VMAgent)

example:

```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMAgent
metadata:
  name: example-vmagent
spec:
  serviceMonitorNamespaceSelector: {}
  serviceMonitorSelector: {}
  replicaCount: 1
  serviceAccountName: vmagent
  remoteWrite:
    - url: "http://vmsingle-example-vmsingle.default.svc:8429/api/v1/write"

EOF
```

## VMAlert


 `VMAlert` has few required config options - `datasource`  and `notifierURL`, for other config parameters check [doc](/docs/api.MD#VMAlert)

```yaml
cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMAlert
metadata:
  name: example-vmalert
spec:
  replicaCount: 1
  datasource:
    url: "http://vmagent-example-vmsingle.default.svc:8429"
  notifierURL: "http://alertmanager-operated:9093"
  evaluationInterval: "30s"
  ruleSelector:
    matchLabels: {}
EOF
```

## Alertmanager


 `Alertmanager` - represent alertmanager configuration, first you have to create secret with configuration for it

```yaml
cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: vmalertmanager-example-alertmanager
stringData:
  alertmanager.yaml: |
    global:
      resolve_timeout: 5m
    route:
      group_by: ['job']
      group_wait: 30s
      group_interval: 5m
      repeat_interval: 12h
      receiver: 'webhook'
    receivers:
    - name: 'webhook'
      webhook_configs:
      - url: 'http://alertmanagerwh:30500/'
EOF
```

and add `Alertmanager` object, other config options at [doc](/docs/api.MD#Alertmanager)

```yaml
cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMAlertmanager
metadata:
  name: example-alertmanager
spec:
  # Add fields here
  replicaCount: 1
EOF
```

## Deploy example-app


First, deploy three instances of a simple example application, which listens and exposes metrics on port `8080`.

```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: example-app
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: example-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: example-app
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: example-app
        image: fabxc/instrumented_app
        ports:
        - name: web
          containerPort: 8080
EOF
```

The VMServiceScrape has a label selector to select Services and their underlying Endpoint objects. The Service object for the example application selects the Pods by the `app` label having the `example-app` value. The Service object also specifies the port on which the metrics are exposed.

```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: example-app
  labels:
    app: example-app
spec:
  selector:
    app: example-app
  ports:
  - name: web
    port: 8080
EOF
```

This Service object is discovered by a VMServiceScrape, which selects in the same way. The `app` label must have the value `example-app`.

```yaml
cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: victoriametrics.com/v1beta1
kind: VMServiceScrape
metadata:
  name: example-app
  labels:
    team: frontend
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: example-app
  endpoints:
  - port: web
EOF
```


## migration from prometheus-operator objects

By default, operator converts all existing prometheus-operator api objects into corresponding victoriametrics-operator objects.

You can control this behaviour by setting env variable for operator:
```bash
#disable convertion for each object
VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTER_PODMONITOR=false
VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTER_SERVICESCRAPE=false
VM_ENABLEDPROMETHEUSCONVERTER_PROMETHEUSRULE=false
```

 Otherwise victoriametrics-operator would try to discover prometheus-operator api and convert it.


## Expose the VMSingle API


> WARNING: Enabling the external access to VMSingle highly recommend to protect with https and authentication, it allows to  to delete data.

example for kubernetes nginx ingress [doc](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/examples/auth/basic/)
```yaml
#generate creds
htpasswd -c auth foo

#create basic auth secret
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
stringData:
  auth: foo:$apr1$wQ0fkxnl$KKOA/OqIZy48CuCB/A1Rc.
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: vm-auth
type: Opaque
EOF

#create ingress rule
cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: networking/v1beta1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
kind: Ingress                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
metadata:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  annotations:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-realm: Authentication Required                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-secret: vm-auth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-type: basic
  labels:
    app: victoria-metrics-single
  name: victoria-metrics-single
spec:
  rules:
  - host: vmsingle.example.com
    http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          serviceName: vmsingle-example-vmsingle-persisted
          servicePort: 8428
        path: /
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - vmsingle.example.com
    secretName: ssl-name

EOF

#now you can access victoria metrics
curl -u foo:bar https://vmsingle.example/com/metrics
```
