docs/resources/vmdistributedcluster.md, before:

---
weight: 12
title: VMDistributedCluster
menu:
  docs:
    identifier: operator-cr-vmdistributedcluster
    parent: operator-cr
    weight: 12
aliases:
  - /operator/resources/vmdistributedcluster/
tags:
  - CRD
  - VMDistributedCluster
---

`VMDistributedCluster` is the Custom Resource Definition for orchestrated updates of several VictoriaMetrics clusters. It allows you to define and manage cluster components of a distributed VictoriaMetrics setup and apply changes to them sequentially, ensuring high availability and minimal disruption.

For a high-level overview of VictoriaMetrics distributed cluster architecture, refer to the official [VictoriaMetrics documentation](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/cluster-victoriametrics/).

## Specification

The `VMDistributedCluster` resource allows you to configure various aspects of your VictoriaMetrics distributed cluster. The specification includes:

*   `paused`: If set to `true`, the operator will not perform any actions on the underlying managed objects. Useful for temporarily halting reconciliation.
*   `readyDeadline`: The deadline for each `VMCluster` to become ready during an update. Default is `5m`.
*   `vmAgentFlushDeadline`: The deadline for `VMAgent` to flush its accumulated queue before proceeding to the next cluster update. Default is `1m`.
*   `zoneUpdatePause`: The time the operator should wait between zone updates to ensure a smooth transition. Default is `1m`.
*   `vmagent`: Configuration for a `VMAgent` instance that will be configured to route traffic to managed `VMCluster` instances. It acts as a global write path entrypoint.
*   `vmauth`: Configuration for a `VMAuth` instance that acts as a proxy/load-balancer for the `vmselect` components of the managed clusters. It acts as a global read path entrypoint.
*   `zones`: Defines the set of VictoriaMetrics clusters that form the distributed setup.
    *   `globalOverrideSpec`: An optional JSON object that specifies an override to the `VMClusterSpec` applied to **all** clusters in the `zones` list.
    *   `vmclusters`: A list of `VMClusterRefOrSpec` objects defining the individual clusters.
*   `license`: Configures the license key for enterprise features. If provided, it is automatically passed to the managed `VMAgent`, `VMAuth`, and all `VMCluster` instances.

### `VMClusterRefOrSpec`

Each entry in the `vmclusters` array allows you to either reference an existing `VMCluster` resource or define a new one inline.

*   `ref`: A `corev1.LocalObjectReference` pointing to an existing `VMCluster` object by name.
*   `overrideSpec`: An optional JSON object that specifies an override to the `VMClusterSpec` for this specific cluster. This is applied on top of the `globalOverrideSpec`.
*   `name`: The name to be used for the `VMCluster` when `spec` is provided.
*   `spec`: A `vmv1beta1.VMClusterSpec` object that defines the desired state of a new `VMCluster` managed by this resource.

**Example: Defining a `VMDistributedCluster` with inline `VMCluster` specifications:**

```yaml
apiVersion: operator.victoriametrics.com/v1alpha1
kind: VMDistributedCluster
metadata:
  name: my-distributed-cluster
spec:
  vmagent:
    name: my-distributed-vmagent
  vmauth:
    name: my-distributed-vmauth
  zones:
    vmclusters:
      - name: zone-a
        spec:
          vmstorage:
            replicaCount: 1
            storage:
              volumeClaimTemplate:
                spec:
                  resources:
                    requests:
                      storage: 10Gi
          vmselect:
            replicaCount: 1
          vminsert:
            replicaCount: 1
      - name: zone-b
        spec:
          vmstorage:
            replicaCount: 1
            storage:
              volumeClaimTemplate:
                spec:
                  resources:
                    requests:
                      storage: 10Gi
          vmselect:
            replicaCount: 1
          vminsert:
            replicaCount: 1
```

**Example: Referencing existing clusters with global and specific overrides:**

```yaml
apiVersion: operator.victoriametrics.com/v1alpha1
kind: VMDistributedCluster
metadata:
  name: managed-distributed-cluster
spec:
  zones:
    globalOverrideSpec:
      vmstorage:
        replicaCount: 3
    vmclusters:
      - ref:
          name: cluster-prod-1
        overrideSpec:
          vmstorage:
            storage:
              volumeClaimTemplate:
                spec:
                  resources:
                    requests:
                      storage: 50Gi
      - ref:
          name: cluster-prod-2
```

### Current shortcomings
- Only `VMCluster` objects are supported for distributed management.
- Only one `VMAgent` and one `VMAuth` can be managed per `VMDistributedCluster`.
- All objects must belong to the same namespace as the `VMDistributedCluster`.
- Referenced `VMCluster` objects (using `ref`) are not actively watched for external changes; they are reconciled periodically or when the `VMDistributedCluster` itself changes.
- Objects must be referred to by name; label selectors are not supported for cluster selection.

Commit message:

Update doc to include a note about vmdistributed chart

docs/resources/vmdistributedcluster.md, after:

---
weight: 12
title: VMDistributedCluster
menu:
  docs:
    identifier: operator-cr-vmdistributedcluster
    parent: operator-cr
    weight: 12
aliases:
  - /operator/resources/vmdistributedcluster/
tags:
  - CRD
  - VMDistributedCluster
---

`VMDistributedCluster` is the Custom Resource Definition for orchestrated updates of several VictoriaMetrics clusters. It allows you to define and manage cluster components of a distributed VictoriaMetrics setup and apply changes to them sequentially, ensuring high availability and minimal disruption.

For a high-level overview of VictoriaMetrics distributed cluster architecture, refer to the official [VictoriaMetrics documentation](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/cluster-victoriametrics/).

## Specification

The `VMDistributedCluster` resource allows you to configure various aspects of your VictoriaMetrics distributed cluster. The specification includes:

*   `paused`: If set to `true`, the operator will not perform any actions on the underlying managed objects. Useful for temporarily halting reconciliation.
*   `readyDeadline`: The deadline for each `VMCluster` to become ready during an update. Default is `5m`.
*   `vmAgentFlushDeadline`: The deadline for `VMAgent` to flush its accumulated queue before proceeding to the next cluster update. Default is `1m`.
*   `zoneUpdatePause`: The time the operator should wait between zone updates to ensure a smooth transition. Default is `1m`.
*   `vmagent`: Configuration for a `VMAgent` instance that will be configured to route traffic to managed `VMCluster` instances. It acts as a global write path entrypoint.
*   `vmauth`: Configuration for a `VMAuth` instance that acts as a proxy/load-balancer for the `vmselect` components of the managed clusters. It acts as a global read path entrypoint.
*   `zones`: Defines the set of VictoriaMetrics clusters that form the distributed setup.
    *   `globalOverrideSpec`: An optional JSON object that specifies an override to the `VMClusterSpec` applied to **all** clusters in the `zones` list.
    *   `vmclusters`: A list of `VMClusterRefOrSpec` objects defining the individual clusters.
*   `license`: Configures the license key for enterprise features. If provided, it is automatically passed to the managed `VMAgent`, `VMAuth`, and all `VMCluster` instances.

### `VMClusterRefOrSpec`

Each entry in the `vmclusters` array allows you to either reference an existing `VMCluster` resource or define a new one inline.

*   `ref`: A `corev1.LocalObjectReference` pointing to an existing `VMCluster` object by name.
*   `overrideSpec`: An optional JSON object that specifies an override to the `VMClusterSpec` for this specific cluster. This is applied on top of the `globalOverrideSpec`.
*   `name`: The name to be used for the `VMCluster` when `spec` is provided.
*   `spec`: A `vmv1beta1.VMClusterSpec` object that defines the desired state of a new `VMCluster` managed by this resource.

**Example: Defining a `VMDistributedCluster` with inline `VMCluster` specifications:**

```yaml
apiVersion: operator.victoriametrics.com/v1alpha1
kind: VMDistributedCluster
metadata:
  name: my-distributed-cluster
spec:
  vmagent:
    name: my-distributed-vmagent
  vmauth:
    name: my-distributed-vmauth
  zones:
    vmclusters:
      - name: zone-a
        spec:
          vmstorage:
            replicaCount: 1
            storage:
              volumeClaimTemplate:
                spec:
                  resources:
                    requests:
                      storage: 10Gi
          vmselect:
            replicaCount: 1
          vminsert:
            replicaCount: 1
      - name: zone-b
        spec:
          vmstorage:
            replicaCount: 1
            storage:
              volumeClaimTemplate:
                spec:
                  resources:
                    requests:
                      storage: 10Gi
          vmselect:
            replicaCount: 1
          vminsert:
            replicaCount: 1
```

**Example: Referencing existing clusters with global and specific overrides:**

```yaml
apiVersion: operator.victoriametrics.com/v1alpha1
kind: VMDistributedCluster
metadata:
  name: managed-distributed-cluster
spec:
  zones:
    globalOverrideSpec:
      vmstorage:
        replicaCount: 3
    vmclusters:
      - ref:
          name: cluster-prod-1
        overrideSpec:
          vmstorage:
            storage:
              volumeClaimTemplate:
                spec:
                  resources:
                    requests:
                      storage: 50Gi
      - ref:
          name: cluster-prod-2
```

### VMDistributedCluster and distributed chart

VMDistributedCluster can be used alongside the resources created by the distributed chart. The distributed chart provides a convenient way to create multiple `VMCluster` objects and surrounding resources.

In order to update VMClusters in a coordinated manner, add VMCluster resources to the `vmclusters` list as refs:
```
    vmclusters:
      - ref:
          name: cluster-1
      - ref:
          name: cluster-2
      - ref:
          name: cluster-3
```

and set vmauth pointing to global read vmauth:
```
  vmauth:
    name: vmauth-global-read-<release name>
```

This will also create a global write VMAgent, pointing to VMCluster loadbalancers automatically.

### Current shortcomings
- Only `VMCluster` objects are supported for distributed management.
- Only one `VMAgent` and one `VMAuth` can be managed per `VMDistributedCluster`.
- All objects must belong to the same namespace as the `VMDistributedCluster`.
- Referenced `VMCluster` objects (using `ref`) are not actively watched for external changes; they are reconciled periodically or when the `VMDistributedCluster` itself changes.
- Objects must be referred to by name; label selectors are not supported for cluster selection.
